Migrate ansible-conjur-host-identity (#38)
cyberark/ansible-conjur-collection: README.md

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Certification%20Level-Community-28A745?link=https://github.com/cyberark/community/blob/master/Conjur/conventions/certification-levels.md)

# CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection

This collection contains components to be used with CyberArk Conjur & DAP (Dynamic Access Provider)
hosted in [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/cyberark/conjur).

## Table of Contents
- [CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection](#cyberark-ansible-conjur-collection)
  * [Requirements](#requirements)
  * [Conjur Ansible Role](#conjur-ansible-role)
    + [Usage](#usage)
    + [Role Variables](#role-variables)
    + [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)
    + [Summon & Service Managers](#summon---service-managers)
    + [Recommendations](#recommendations)

>   * [conjur_variable Lookup Plugin](#conjur_variable-lookup-plugin)

Reviewer: This needs to be updated to match the updates below - maybe regenerate the TOC?

I'm always a fan of dropping the header from the TOC, bc it artificially indents everything one level. that'd be worth doing too imo.

Author: I actually was just working on this before you posted this review lol

  + [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
  + [Role Variables](#role-variables-1)
  + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook-1)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)

<!-- Table of contents generated with markdown-toc
http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/ -->

## Requirements

- An instance of [CyberArk Conjur Open Source](https://www.conjur.org) v1.x+ or [CyberArk Dynamic
  Access
  Provider](https://docs.cyberark.com/Product-Doc/OnlineHelp/AAM-DAP/Latest/en/Content/Resources/_TopNav/cc_Home.htm)
  v10.x+ accessible from the target node
- Ansible >= 2.9

## Installation 
From terminal, run the following command:
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install cyberark.conjur
```

## Conjur Ansible Role

> This Ansible role provides the ability to grant Conjur machine identity to a host. Based on that

Reviewer: can we add a bold **Note** here that this is not yet available in a Galaxy release?

identity, secrets can then be retrieved securely using the [Conjur Lookup

> Plugin](#conjur_variable-lookup-plugin) or using the [Summon](https://github.com/cyberark/summon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin](#conjur-ansible-lookup-plugin) or using the [Summon](https://github.com/cyberark/summon)
```

* `conjur_host_factory_token` (_Optional)_: [Host
  Factory](https://developer.conjur.net/reference/services/host_factory/) token for layer
  enrollment. This should be specified in the environment on the Ansible controlling host.
* `conjur_host_name` (_Optional)_: Name of the host to be created.
* `conjur_ssl_certificate`: Public SSL certificate of the Conjur endpoint
* `conjur_validate_certs`: Boolean value to indicate if the Conjur endpoint should validate
  certificates
* `summon.version`: version of Summon to install. Default is `0.8.2`.
* `summon_conjur.version`: version of Summon-Conjur provider to install. Default is `0.5.3`.

The variables marked with _`(Optional)`_ are required fields. All other variables are required for
running with an HTTPS Conjur endpoint.

### Example Playbook

Configure a remote node with a Conjur identity and Summon:
```yml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
    - role: cyberark.conjur-host-identity
      conjur_appliance_url: 'https://conjur.myorg.com/api',
      conjur_account: 'myorg',
      conjur_host_factory_token: "{{lookup('env', 'HFTOKEN')}}",
      conjur_host_name: "{{inventory_hostname}}"
```

This example:

> - Registers the host `{insert whatever the hostname is}` with Conjur, adding it into the Conjur 

Reviewer: the note `insert whatever the hostname is` is for you - what is the hostname? is it the value of `inventory_hostname`? should this be replaced with `{{ inventory_hostname }}`, or is there something more clear we could put here instead?

Author: Agreed - it should tie into the example above with `{{ inventory_hostname }}`

- Installs Summon with the Summon Conjur provider for secret retrieval from Conjur.

### Summon & Service Managers
With Summon installed, using Conjur with a Service Manager (like SystemD) becomes a snap.  Here's a
simple example of a SystemD file connecting to Conjur:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=DemoApp
After=network-online.target

[Service]
User=DemoUser
#Environment=CONJUR_MAJOR_VERSION=4
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/summon --yaml 'DB_PASSWORD: !var staging/demoapp/database/password' /usr/local/bin/myapp
```
> Note: When connecting to Conjur 4 (Conjur Enterprise), Summon requires the environment variable
`CONJUR_MAJOR_VERSION` set to `4`. You can provide it by uncommenting the relevant line above.

The above example uses Summon to retrieve the password stored in `staging/myapp/database/password`,
set it to an environment variable `DB_PASSWORD`, and provide it to the demo application process.
Using Summon, the secret is kept off disk. If the service is restarted, Summon retrieves the
password as the application is started.

### Recommendations

- Add `no_log: true` to each play that uses sensitive data, otherwise that data can be printed to

>   the logs.

Reviewer: is there a follow-up issue to review the logs before the next tag?

Author: I will file one

Author: Filed: https://github.com/cyberark/ansible-conjur-collection/issues/45

- Set the Ansible files to minimum permissions. Ansible uses the permissions of the user that runs
  it.

## Conjur Ansible Lookup Plugin
Fetch credentials from CyberArk Conjur using the controlling host's Conjur identity or environment
variables.

he controlling host running Ansible must have a Conjur identity, provided for example by the 
[Conjur Ansible role](#conjur-ansible-role).
### Environment variables

The following environment variables will be used by the lookup plugin to authenticate with the
Conjur host, if they are present on the system running the lookup plugin.

- `CONJUR_ACCOUNT` : The Conjur account name
- `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL` : URL of the running Conjur service
- `CONJUR_CERT_FILE` : Path to the Conjur certificate file
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN` : A valid Conjur host username
- `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY` : The api key that corresponds to the Conjur host username

> - `CONJUR_AUTHN_TOKEN_FILE` : Path to a file containing a valid Conjur auth token

Reviewer: it's striking me as weird that you configure the role with playbook keys (?) and you configure the lookup plugin with env vars. how do you use them together? if I set up the role, will the plugin not be configured?

Reviewer: this might be a follow-up issue (it would go hand-in-hand with your own experiments running the e2e flow)

Author: I think that's just the nature of how they work. The role is configured through the playbook, while the plugin is an executable that may depend on variables being present in the system. Both can be set in the playbook, but it's an important distinction.

Author: On the topic of "can I set them once and have them used in both places?" - I'm not sure. There's probably a way to chain things together, but that would require us to assume the user is going to always be using both the plugin and the role, and won't need to use or configure them independently. I'm not familiar with the use cases, but I assume that's something people may want to do.

Reviewer: @BradleyBoutcher can we make sure it's captured in a follow-up issue that we need to review the UX of using the role and then the lookup plugin within the collection?

Author: #47

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Certification%20Level-Community-28A745?link=https://github.com/cyberark/community/blob/master/Conjur/conventions/certification-levels.md)

# CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection

This collection contains components to be used with CyberArk Conjur & DAP (Dynamic Access Provider)
hosted in [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/cyberark/conjur).

## Table of Contents

> - [CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection](#cyberark-ansible-conjur-collection)

Reviewer: can the TOC be updated to remove this top level item? it doesn't add anything, and it just indents the whole TOC over one

The node can then be granted least-privilege access to retrieve the secrets it needs in a secure
manner.

### Role Variables

* `conjur_appliance_url` (_Optional)_: URL of the running Conjur service
* `conjur_account` (_Optional)_: Conjur account name
* `conjur_host_factory_token` (_Optional)_: [Host
  Factory](https://developer.conjur.net/reference/services/host_factory/) token for layer
  enrollment. This should be specified in the environment on the Ansible controlling host.
* `conjur_host_name` (_Optional)_: Name of the host to be created.
* `conjur_ssl_certificate`: Public SSL certificate of the Conjur endpoint
* `conjur_validate_certs`: Boolean value to indicate if the Conjur endpoint should validate
  certificates
* `summon.version`: version of Summon to install. Default is `0.8.2`.
* `summon_conjur.version`: version of Summon-Conjur provider to install. Default is `0.5.3`.

The variables marked with _`(Optional)`_ are required fields. All other variables are required for
running with an HTTPS Conjur endpoint.

### Example Playbook

Configure a remote node with a Conjur identity and Summon:
```yml
- hosts: servers
  roles:

>     - role: cyberark.conjur-host-identity

Reviewer: is this definition the same once it's part of the collection?

Author: I'm not sure, but I should be able to answer this once I've finished testing more

Reviewer: might be good to know for sure before we merge, since this will land in the project README on merge

Reviewer: @BradleyBoutcher I think this still needs to be verified ...

Author: Based on the documentations and my short experimenting, the correct syntax is `cyberark.conjur.conjur_host_identity` when using this role installed through the collection.

## Table of Contents

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Installation](#installation)
* [Conjur Ansible Role](#conjur-ansible-role)
  + [Usage](#usage)
  + [Role Variables](#role-variables)
  + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)
  + [Summon & Service Managers](#summon---service-managers)
  + [Recommendations](#recommendations)
* [Conjur Ansible Lookup Plugin](#conjur-ansible-lookup-plugin)
  + [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
  + [Role Variables](#role-variables-1)
  + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook-1)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
* [License](#license)

<!-- Table of contents generated with markdown-toc
http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/ -->

## Requirements

- An instance of [CyberArk Conjur Open Source](https://www.conjur.org) v1.x+ or [CyberArk Dynamic
  Access
  Provider](https://docs.cyberark.com/Product-Doc/OnlineHelp/AAM-DAP/Latest/en/Content/Resources/_TopNav/cc_Home.htm)
  v10.x+ accessible from the target node
- Ansible >= 2.9

## Installation 
From terminal, run the following command:
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install cyberark.conjur
```

## Conjur Ansible Role

> **NOTE**: This role is currently not available in releases installed through Ansible Galaxy, but will be added in the next release. Follow [issue #30](https://github.com/cyberark/ansible-conjur-collection/issues/35) for updates.

Reviewer 2: Nit: there should be an empty line between headers and text in this file

This Ansible role provides the ability to grant Conjur machine identity to a host. Based on that
identity, secrets can then be retrieved securely using the [Conjur Lookup
Plugin](#conjur-ansible-lookup-plugin) or using the [Summon](https://github.com/cyberark/summon)
tool (installed on hosts with identities created by this role).

### Usage
The Conjur role provides a method to establish the Conjur identity of a remote node with Ansible.
The node can then be granted least-privilege access to retrieve the secrets it needs in a secure
manner.

### Role Variables

> * `conjur_appliance_url` (_Optional)_: URL of the running Conjur service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `conjur_appliance_url` _(Optional)_: URL of the running Conjur service
```

I'm guessing these other ones need that too

* `conjur_account` (_Optional)_: Conjur account name
* `conjur_host_factory_token` (_Optional)_: [Host
  Factory](https://developer.conjur.net/reference/services/host_factory/) token for layer
  enrollment. This should be specified in the environment on the Ansible controlling host.
* `conjur_host_name` (_Optional)_: Name of the host to be created.
* `conjur_ssl_certificate`: Public SSL certificate of the Conjur endpoint
* `conjur_validate_certs`: Boolean value to indicate if the Conjur endpoint should validate
  certificates
* `summon.version`: version of Summon to install. Default is `0.8.2`.
* `summon_conjur.version`: version of Summon-Conjur provider to install. Default is `0.5.3`.

> The variables marked with _`(Optional)`_ are required fields. All other variables are required for

Reviewer 2: Hmm... an optional value is required?

Reviewer: HA good catch

running with an HTTPS Conjur endpoint.

### Example Playbook

Configure a remote node with a Conjur identity and Summon:
```yml
- hosts: servers
  roles:
    - role: cyberark.conjur-host-identity
      conjur_appliance_url: 'https://conjur.myorg.com/api',
      conjur_account: 'myorg',
      conjur_host_factory_token: "{{lookup('env', 'HFTOKEN')}}",
      conjur_host_name: "{{inventory_hostname}}"
```

This example:
- Registers the host `{{ inventory_hostname }}` with Conjur, adding it into the Conjur policy layer
  defined for the provided host factory token.
- Installs Summon with the Summon Conjur provider for secret retrieval from Conjur.

### Summon & Service Managers

> With Summon installed, using Conjur with a Service Manager (like SystemD) becomes a snap.  Here's a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Summon installed, using Conjur with a Service Manager (like `systemd`) becomes a snap.  Here's a
```

> With Summon installed, using Conjur with a Service Manager (like SystemD) becomes a snap.  Here's a

Reviewer 2: Needs empty newline before header

> simple example of a SystemD file connecting to Conjur:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
simple example of a `systemd` file connecting to Conjur:
```

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Certification%20Level-Community-28A745?link=https://github.com/cyberark/community/blob/master/Conjur/conventions/certification-levels.md)

# CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection

> This collection contains plugins to be used for CyberArk Conjur & DAP (Dynamic Access Provider) hosted in [ansible galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/cyberark/conjur).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This collection contains plugins to be used for CyberArk Conjur & DAP (Dynamic Access Provider)
hosted in [Ansible Galaxy](https://galaxy.ansible.com/cyberark/conjur).
```

Reviewer: I'm not sure `plugins` is the right term here

## Table of Contents
- [CyberArk Ansible Conjur Collection](#cyberark-ansible-conjur-collection)
  * [Requirements](#requirements)
  * [conjur_variable Lookup Plugin](#conjur_variable-lookup-plugin)
    + [Role Variables](#role-variables)
    + [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)

>   * [Conjur Ansible Role](#conjur-ansible-role)

Reviewer: can the order of these two be swapped? usually I think you need to use the role before you can use the lookup plugin

    + [Usage](#usage)
    + [Role Variables](#role-variables-1)
    + [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    + [Example Playbook](#example-playbook-1)
    + [Summon & Service Managers](#summon---service-managers)
    + [Recommendations](#recommendations)
  * [Contributing](#contributing)
  * [License](#license)

<!-- Table of contents generated with markdown-toc
http://ecotrust-canada.github.io/markdown-toc/ -->

## Requirements

> - conjur_variable Lookup Plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `conjur_variable` Lookup Plugin
```

  - [CyberArk Conjur Open Source](https://www.conjur.org) v1.x+ or
  - [CyberArk Dynamic Access Provider](https://docs.cyberark.com/Product-Doc/OnlineHelp/AAM-DAP/Latest/en/Content/Resources/_TopNav/cc_Home.htm) v10.x+
  - Ansible >= 2.9

- Conjur Role
  - A running Conjur service that is accessible from the target nodes.

>   - Ansible >= 2.3.0.0

Reviewer: I'd suggest we go with Ansible >= 2.9 here, and make that the standard for the whole collection. that is, don't separate requirements into separate sections for the role / lookup plugin - just have one requirements section for the plugin, and use the one you have for the lookup plugin above.

## Installation 
From terminal, run the following command:
```sh
ansible-galaxy collection install cyberark.conjur
```

## conjur_variable Lookup Plugin
Fetch credentials from CyberArk Conjur using the controlling host's Conjur identity or environment variables.

- The controlling host running Ansible has a Conjur identity. [More Information here](https://docs.conjur.org/latest/en/Content/Get%20Started/key_concepts/machine_identity.html) and here in [Conjur Ansible role project](https://github.com/cyberark/ansible-conjur-host-identity/)

> - Environment variables could be `CONJUR_ACCOUNT`, `CONJUR_APPLIANCE_URL`, `CONJUR_CERT_FILE`, `CONJUR_AUTHN_LOGIN`, `CONJUR_AUTHN_API_KEY`, `CONJUR_AUTHN_TOKEN_FILE`

Reviewer: this could be improved, but it's fine to leave that as a follow-up since it's not directly related to this PR

can we file an issue for it, though?

Author: Definitely

      msg: "{{ lookup('cyberark.conjur.conjur_variable', '/path/to/secret') }}"
```

## Conjur Ansible Role

> This Ansible role provides the ability to grant Conjur machine identity to a host. Based on that identity, secrets can then be retrieved securely using the [Summon](https://github.com/cyberark/summon) tool (installed on hosts with identities created by this role).

Reviewer: we don't even refer to the lookup plugin here. I think to tell a coherent story in the docs, we need to figure out how they are supposed to work together. I assume Summon is still an option, but we can't skip over the fact that users can also use the lookup plugin from this collection once they've used the role to create a Conjur host identity.

I'd suggest when you bump this section up higher (because you create an identity before you use it to pull secrets), you can change this to something like
```suggestion
This Ansible role provides the ability to grant Conjur machine identity to a host. Based on that identity, secrets can then be retrieved securely using the [Conjur Lookup Plugin](#conjur_variable-lookup-plugin) or using the [Summon](https://github.com/cyberark/summon) tool (installed on hosts with identities created by this role).
```

### Usage

> The Conjur role provides a method to "Conjurize" or establish the Conjur identity of a remote node with Ansible. The node can then be granted least-privilege access to retrieve the secrets it needs in a secure manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Conjur role provides a method to establish the Conjur identity of a remote node with Ansible. The node can then be granted least-privilege access to retrieve the secrets it needs in a secure manner.
```
We don't really use `conjurize` as a term in Conjur OSS / DAP (it's a Conjur v4 construct)

### Role Variables

* `conjur_appliance_url` `*`: URL of the running Conjur service
* `conjur_account` `*`: Conjur account name
* `conjur_host_factory_token` `*`: [Host Factory](https://developer.conjur.net/reference/services/host_factory/) token for
layer enrollment. This should be specified in the environment on the Ansible controlling host.

> * `conjur_host_name` `*`: Name of the host being conjurized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `conjur_host_name` `*`: Name of the host to be created.
```

* `conjur_ssl_certificate`: Public SSL certificate of the Conjur endpoint
* `conjur_validate_certs`: Boolean value to indicate if the Conjur endpoint should validate certificates
* `summon.version`: version of Summon to install. Default is `0.6.6`.

> * `summon_conjur.version`: version of Summon-Conjur provider to install. Default is `0.5.0`.

Reviewer: are these optional parameters?

Reviewer: I see the comment below - I actually find it clearer when the definition includes `(optional)` vs having the asterisks, up to you which you go with

Reviewer: also, are these defaults for real? they're so outdated!

Author: Totally - I can bump those versions

```

This example:
- Registers the host with Conjur, adding it into the layer specific to the provided host factory token.
- Installs Summon with the Summon Conjur provider for secret retrieval from Conjur.

### Summon & Service Managers
With Summon installed, using Conjur with a Service Manager (like SystemD) becomes a snap.  Here's a simple example of a SystemD file connecting to Conjur:
```ini
[Unit]
Description=DemoApp
After=network-online.target

[Service]
User=DemoUser
#Environment=CONJUR_MAJOR_VERSION=4
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/summon --yaml 'DB_PASSWORD: !var staging/demoapp/database/password' /usr/local/bin/myapp
```
> Note:
When connecting to Conjur 4 (Conjur Enterprise), Summon requires the environment variable `CONJUR_MAJOR_VERSION` set to `4`. You can provide it by uncommenting the relevant line above.

The above example uses Summon to retrieve the password stored in `staging/myapp/database/password`, set it to an environment variable `DB_PASSWORD`, and provide it to the demo application process. Using Summon, the secret is kept off disk. If the service is restarted, Summon retrieves the password as the application is started.

### Recommendations

> - Add `no_log: true` to each play that uses sensitive data, otherwise that data can be printed to the logs.

Reviewer: I want to dig into this one more - this is worth reviewing. may need another follow-up issue

Author: Oof, yeah that's something that should be the default.
